For telling dominant traits that would exist in the last days,
2 Timothy chapter 3 says that men will be lovers of themselves.
Is it wrong for us to love ourselves?
No, it's normal.
Even necessary to have a healthy love of oneself.
After all, Jesus said,
you must love your neighbor as yourself.
And we'll talk more about that in a minute.
However, the love mentioned here is distorted and selfish.
And because it prevents love of neighbor,
it becomes a barrier to peace.
Some Bible scholars suggested Paul put love of self
at the top of his list,
that 2 Timothy chapter 3 verses 1 through 5,
because all the remaining negative characteristics in the list
result from it.
And those traits, too,
are a barrier to peace.
For example,
not being open to any agreement mentioned in 2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 3,
often leads to anger, wrath,
screaming, and abuse of speech.
Rather than bringing peace,
such a lack of self-control stirs up strife.
On the other hand,
love of neighbor has the opposite effect.
It leads to genuine peace.
Please turn to Matthew chapter 22 verse 36.
One of the Pharisees versed in the law tests Jesus.
Teacher,
which is the greatest commandment in the law?
Jesus responded with the words in verse 37,
just considered at length in the preceding talk.
You must love Jehovah your God.
But then Jesus goes beyond the original question
and quotes a second commandment.
Let's read verse 39.
The second like it is this.
You must love your neighbor as yourself.
Jesus is saying that the two commandments,
love of God and love of neighbor, are linked.
Now, how exactly would you define neighbor?
Please turn to Luke chapter 10.
Notice how Jesus answered this very question,
who really is my neighbor?
Jesus responds clearly with his renowned illustration
of the neighborly Samaritan.
In Jesus' day, the Jews disdained Samaritans.
Their attitude moved Jesus to make a powerful point.
In his illustration, Jesus said that the Samaritan
took extraordinary measures to help a Jewish man.
The Jew had fallen victim to robbers
and his own countrymen,
ignoring, leaving him half dead.
What Jesus said must have stunned the audience.
Luke chapter 10 verses 33 and 34 reads,
but a certain Samaritan,
traveling the road came upon him,
and at seeing him, he was moved with pity.
So he approached him and bandaged his wounds,
pouring oil and wine on them.
Then he mounted him on his own animal
and brought him to an inn and took care of him.
Jesus then asked a penetrating question in verse 36.
Who of these three seems to you to have made himself neighbor?
His words recorded in verse 37 are also directed to you and to me.
Go and do the same yourself.
Yes, our neighbors include not only our family members
and our Christian brothers and sisters,
but all whom we encounter from day to day.
In other words, our love extends to those who are not of our own race,
tribe, nationality, or religion.
How do we show that love?
Please turn with me to Romans chapter 13.
Because we love our neighbor,
we avoid conduct that disrupts peace.
Instead, we strive to apply the Inspired Council at Romans chapter 13
verses 8 through 10.
Do not owe anything to anyone except to love one another.
For whoever loves his fellow man has fulfilled the law.
For the law code, you must not commit adultery, you must not murder,
you must not steal, you must not covet,
and whatever other commandment there is is summed up in this saying,
you must love your neighbor as yourself.
Love does not work equal to one's neighbor.
Therefore, love is the law's fulfillment.
That means that our responsibility is to treat others in ways that promote peace.
When others treat us unkindly, we endeavor to imitate Jesus.
When he was being insulted, he did not return the insult.
When he was suffering, he didn't go threatening.
Imitating the Prince of Peace and the God of Peace gives us inner peace.
In the following dramatization, notice how a family benefits
from the Apostle Paul's example of displaying love of neighbor even when provoked.
What are you going to do? You're just a coward.
Man, all you do is stand next to your little car.
You don't do anything. You just stand next to your little car.
Just a cow or a nutro or rice a cow.
Gabe, what happened today?
It's just, I've been yelled at in service before,
but this time I wanted to, I don't know.
I wanted to go up to the girls and smash their phones.
I'm so glad that you didn't.
Yeah, but I feel guilty because I was like, it was like so angry.
It's okay. Let's keep reading.
We had left often, verse 26.
Suddenly, a great earthquake occurred
so that the foundations of the jail were shaken.
Moreover, all the doors were instantly open,
and everyone's bonds came loose.
When the jailer woke up and saw that the prison doors were open,
he drew his sword and was about to kill himself,
assuming that the prisoners had escaped.
But Paul called out with a loud voice.
Do not hurt yourself for we're all here.
So he asked for lights in Washington
and seized with trembling.
He fell down before Paul and Silas.
Now, think about what the jailer had done to Paul.
He could have hated him for it.
Yeah, he could have.
But I guess he saw the jailer's pain instead of just his own.
Yeah, Paul loved his neighbor.
He didn't hold back trying to save his life.
Hey, how do you get the nerve to keep coming out here?
Look, you were right.
How about what you said?
No one should stand around
while other people suffer injustice.
So do something, fight like we do.
This is my way of making a difference.
The only way that I know the world can really change.
Come on, man, the Bible?
Like, I get where you're thinking,
but let me show you just one scripture.
All right, one scripture.
So this is a verse in the Bible that convinced me
of how I can make a difference.
It's a Matthew chapter 24 verse 40.
Here it says,
and this good news of the kingdom
will be preached in all of the inhabited earth
for a witness to all the nations
and then the end will come.
In the dramatization,
Paul could have reacted in a negative way towards the jailer.
However, in spite of the way he had been treated,
he displayed neighborly love.
And this had a powerful effect on the jailer
and brought praise to Jehovah.
Because we are imperfect,
we must work hard
at cultivating love for our neighbor.
This is illustrated in what happened
with the Apostle Peter.
Prior to becoming a follower of Jesus,
he did not have fellowship with non-Jewish people.
But after he became a Christian,
God taught him that division
between Jews and Gentiles
was not to continue.
And Peter got the point.
It acts chapter 10 verses 34 and 35.
Peter is quoted as saying,
Now I truly understand that God is not partial,
but in every nation the man who fears him
and works what is right
is acceptable to him.
Peter even stayed in the newly converted Gentiles home
for days.
And he continued the practice of eating
with non-Jewish Christians.
However, 13 years later,
while in Syrian Antioch,
Peter suddenly stopped associating
with Gentile Christians.
Why?
He feared the reaction of some Jewish Christians
who were slow to accept change.
This illustrates that prejudice can be deeply rooted.
It takes constant effort to read ourselves of it.
But we must learn to view others impartially
as Jehovah does.
We want to treat others as Jehovah treats them.
In his sermon on the Mount,
Jesus said,
You heard it was said,
You must love your neighbor
and hate your enemy.
However, I say to you,
continue to love your enemies
and to pray for those who persecute you.
Then, as recorded in Matthew chapter 5,
and verse 45,
he explains why we want to show that type of love,
so that you may prove yourself sons
of your father who is in the heavens
since he makes his son rise on both the wicked and the good
and makes it rain on both the righteous and the unrighteous.
This love,
produced by Holy Spirit,
is markedly different from the sort of love
that is common in the world.
It's based on a higher principle.
Jesus said,
Even sinners will follow a policy of like for like.
But if we want to prove ourselves sons
of our father who is in the heavens,
it must be different.
We welcome others,
as God and Christ have welcomed us.
At Romans 157, the Bible says to us,
Welcome one another,
just as Christ also welcomed you.
The Greek word used there
conveys the idea of receiving someone kindly or hospitably,
such as into one's home or circle of friends.
Prejudice withers as love grows.
Remember that at one time,
we were all strangers or foreigners,
not close to God,
but Jehovah drew us to Him with cords of love.
Christ welcomed us.
He opened the doors at were
so that we could become part of God's family.
Since Jesus has kindly accepted us,
as imperfect as we are,
it should be unthinkable for us to reject anyone else.
Dear brothers and sisters,
divisions, prejudice and hostility
will doubtless increase in the world
as we approach the end of this wicked system.
As servants of Jehovah, though,
we seek the wisdom from above,
which is impartial and promotes peace.
We rejoice as we forge friendships
with people from other lands,
accept cultural differences,
and possibly even learn the languages of others.
When we do this,
peace flows just like a river
and justice like the waves of the sea.
We work what is good toward all,
but especially our brothers.
Love of neighbor moves us to make sacrifices
in behalf of others,
and to share the good news
at every opportunity,
our master, Jesus,
said,
This is my commandment
that you love one another
just as I have loved you.
What are the blessings that come from love of neighbor?
Jesus answers that
at John chapter 15
and we'll read verses eight through ten,
beginning with verse eight.
Number one,
My Father is glorified in this,
that you keep bearing much fruit
and prove yourselves my disciples.
The second blessing,
verse nine,
Just as the Father has loved me,
so I have loved you
remain in my love.
If you observe my commandments,
you will remain in my love.
Just as I have observed the commandments of the Father
and remain in his love.
Brother Robert Saranco,
a helper to the writing committee,
will now present the final talk of this symposium,
how love leads to genuine peace,
love for God's Word.